build_final_otf_serif/readme.md, before:

## 猫啃网扛重族 | Maoken Heavy Labourer
# 封装字体／Building the font

## 参考步骤 Sample steps

参考步骤如下：  
Sample steps are as follow:

0. 加粗字体  
Boldening the font
1. 制作映射表  
Creating the Mapping Table
2. 将字体从字符名称换成 CID 编号名称  
Name-keyed to CID-keyed Conversion
3. 微调 CID 字体源文件  
Hinting the CIDFont Resource
4. 封装 CID OpenType 字体  
Building the CID-keyed OpenType Font
5. （特别）将 OTF 转为 TTF <- 猫啃反馈 OTF 版在 Adobe Photoshop CC 2020 无法使用，因此需要转换成 TTF  
(Extra) Convert OTF to TTF <- Maoken has given feedback that OTF version will crash in Adobe Photoshop CC 2020, thus convert to TTF

工具/Tools：[AFDKO](https://github.com/adobe-type-tools/afdko)

以下只提供大致讲解，详细操作请见[命令文件](./FULL/build_command.txt)。  
The following is a rough outline, see [build commands](./FULL/build_command.txt) for detailed command.

## 加粗字体 Boldening the font

因为思源宋体横笔略细，因此先使用 FontCreator 加粗横向笔画，通过 Tools > Glyph Transformer... 设置如下：  
As the horizontal stems of Source Han Sans are slightly too thin, thus the font is enbolden with FontCreator on horizontal strokes with the following settings in Tools > Glyph Transformer... :  
![bolden-settings](shserif-bolden.png)

## 获得文件 Getting files

请到[思源宋体仓库](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-han-serif)下的主目录及 Heavy 文件夹下载需要的文件。  
Please visit [the repository of Source Han Serif](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-han-serif) and download required files from the main repo and Heavy folder.

## 脚本解析 Decoding scripts

请参考[黑体版](../build_final_otf_sans)解说。  
Please refer to the decription in the [Gothic version](../build_final_otf_sans).

## 文件解析 Decoding files

* `raw.txt` - 字体文件的映射及字形顺序编码（给 CID 使用）。  
  (CID) Mapping and glyph ID for font file.
* `map.txt` - 字体文件的字形对 CID 编码映射。  
  Mapping of glyphs to CID number in font file.
* `font.pfa` - 向量外框文件。  
  Vector outline file.
* `cidfontinfo` - 字体文件资料。  
  Info for font file.
* `cidfont.raw` - 未进行字体微调（hinting）的字体文件。  
  Unhinted font file.
* `cidfont.ps` - 已进行字体微调的字体文件。  
  Hinted font file.

## 参考 Reference

*Dr. Ken Lunde - [Leveraging AFDKO Tools to Convert Name-keyed OpenType Fonts to CID-keyed (Part 1)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2011/12/leveraging-afdko-part-1.html) [(Part 2)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2012/01/leveraging-afdko-part-2.html) [(Part 3)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2012/01/leveraging-afdko-part-3.html) (英文/English)

Commit message:

Add info about splitted large files

build_final_otf_serif/readme.md, after:

## 猫啃网扛重族 | Maoken Heavy Labourer
# 封装字体／Building the font

## 参考步骤 Sample steps

参考步骤如下：  
Sample steps are as follow:

0. 加粗字体  
Boldening the font
1. 制作映射表  
Creating the Mapping Table
2. 将字体从字符名称换成 CID 编号名称  
Name-keyed to CID-keyed Conversion
3. 微调 CID 字体源文件  
Hinting the CIDFont Resource
4. 封装 CID OpenType 字体  
Building the CID-keyed OpenType Font
5. （特别）将 OTF 转为 TTF <- 猫啃反馈 OTF 版在 Adobe Photoshop CC 2020 无法使用，因此需要转换成 TTF  
(Extra) Convert OTF to TTF <- Maoken has given feedback that OTF version will crash in Adobe Photoshop CC 2020, thus convert to TTF

工具/Tools：[AFDKO](https://github.com/adobe-type-tools/afdko)

以下只提供大致讲解，详细操作请见[命令文件](./FULL/build_command.txt)。  
The following is a rough outline, see [build commands](./FULL/build_command.txt) for detailed command.

## 加粗字体 Boldening the font

因为思源宋体横笔略细，因此先使用 FontCreator 加粗横向笔画，通过 Tools > Glyph Transformer... 设置如下：  
As the horizontal stems of Source Han Sans are slightly too thin, thus the font is enbolden with FontCreator on horizontal strokes with the following settings in Tools > Glyph Transformer... :  
![bolden-settings](shserif-bolden.png)

## 获得文件 Getting files

请到[思源宋体仓库](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-han-serif)下的主目录及 Heavy 文件夹下载需要的文件。  
Please visit [the repository of Source Han Serif](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-han-serif) and download required files from the main repo and Heavy folder.

部分文件过大已在[额外文件分支](https://github.com/NightFurySL2001/maoken-heavy-labourer/tree/supplement-files)拆分上传，列表如下：  
Some large source files are split and uploaded in [supplement files branch](https://github.com/NightFurySL2001/maoken-heavy-labourer/tree/supplement-files), which is the following:

* `cidfont.ps` (FULL) - supplement-files: `cidfont.ps-ming-FULL.00X`

## 脚本解析 Decoding scripts

请参考[黑体版](../build_final_otf_sans)解说。  
Please refer to the decription in the [Gothic version](../build_final_otf_sans).

## 文件解析 Decoding files

* `raw.txt` - 字体文件的映射及字形顺序编码（给 CID 使用）。  
  (CID) Mapping and glyph ID for font file.
* `map.txt` - 字体文件的字形对 CID 编码映射。  
  Mapping of glyphs to CID number in font file.
* `font.pfa` - 向量外框文件。  
  Vector outline file.
* `cidfontinfo` - 字体文件资料。  
  Info for font file.
* `cidfont.raw` - 未进行字体微调（hinting）的字体文件。  
  Unhinted font file.
* `cidfont.ps` - 已进行字体微调的字体文件。  
  Hinted font file.

## 参考 Reference

*Dr. Ken Lunde - [Leveraging AFDKO Tools to Convert Name-keyed OpenType Fonts to CID-keyed (Part 1)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2011/12/leveraging-afdko-part-1.html) [(Part 2)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2012/01/leveraging-afdko-part-2.html) [(Part 3)](https://ccjktype.fonts.adobe.com/2012/01/leveraging-afdko-part-3.html) (英文/English)
